---
layout: post
title:  "CV of Yiming Xu"

---

School of Atmospheric Sciences, Nanjing University  
163 Xianlin Avenue, Nanjing, Jiangsu, China  
ymxu@smail.nju.edu.cn 

__<font size="4" color="black" bold><u>Education</u></font>__

2012-2016 :
B.S.in School of Atmospheric Sciences, Nanjing University, Nanjing, China   &ensp;&ensp;     GPA : 4.28/5.0  
2018-Present :
Master candidate in School of Atmospheric Sciences, Nanjing University, Nanjing, China  &ensp; GPA : 4.52/5.0

__<font size="4" color="black" bold><u>Research Interests</u></font>__  
Climate dynamics; Ocean-atmosphere interaction; Tropical dynamics; Sub-seasonal to seasonal prediction

__<font size="4" color="black" bold><u>Research Experience</u></font>__  
2015/07—2019/01: The tropical and extratropical-origin summer meridional teleconnections over East Asia  
Research Advisor: Prof. Xuguang Sun
* Analyze the structure and the interannual variability of the teleconnection in observation.
* The associated time series are used to understand the source and the influence on circulation and precipitation.

2019/01—Present: Characteristics of Summer Regional persistent extreme precipitation events and their typical atmospheric circulation patterns over Eastern China  
Research Advisor: Prof. Xuguang Sun
* Classify the regional extreme precipitation events via k-mean cluster analysis and study related atmospheric circulation patterns and energy source.
* Try to use the circulation pattern to predict the extreme events and evaluate the models’ skill in prediction.

__<font size="4" color="black" bold><u>Publications</u></font>__  
Sun, X., __Xu, Y.__, Zhang, Z., & Yang, X.-Q. (2019). The tropical and extratropical-origin summer meridional teleconnections over East Asia. Climate Dynamics, 53:721-735. [doi: 10.1007/s00382-018-04610-2](https://doi.org/10.1007/s00382-018-04610-2)    
__Xu, Y.__, & Sun, X., Characteristics of Summer Regional persistent extreme precipitation events and their typical atmospheric circulation patterns over Eastern China. (in preparation)

__<font size="4" color="black" bold><u>Conference</u></font>__  
2019/12: American Geophysical Union (AGU) Fall meeting in San Francisco.  
Characteristics of Summer Regional persistent extreme precipitation events and their typical atmospheric circulation patterns over Eastern China.(poster)

__<font size="4" color="black" bold><u>Teaching Experience</u></font>__     
2018-2019:   &ensp;&ensp;TA:&ensp; Numerical Weather Prediction – undergraduate course  
2019-2020:   &ensp;&ensp;TA: &ensp;Fluid Mechanics – undergraduate course

__<font size="4" color="black" bold><u>Awards and Honors</u></font>__  
The People’s Scholarship, Nanjing University, 2013, 2014, 2015(Three times)  
Academic Excellence Scholarship, Nanjing University, 2019
